# Azizbek Avazov's portfolio

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Project structure](#project-structure)
- [Development diary](#development-diary)

## Features

- Content Management System
- Search Functionality
- Comments Section
- Social Media Integration
- Tags and Categories
- Security Measures
- Performance Optimization
- SEO Optimization
- Notifications
- User Career (UX) Enhancements

## Technologies Used

- Front-end: ReactJS + TailwindCSS
- Back-end: Java Spring Boot
- Database: PostgreSQL

## Project Structure

* public/images - folder containing public images of the project such as logo.
* src/components - root folder to store components
* src/components/layout - components that specify the layout of the website
* src/components/shared - folder to store shared components
* src/utils - general utility functions that are used throughout the application

## Development Diary

### Day 1 - 15/01/2024:

#### Installation of packages and creating of Favicon icons

Created ReactJS project 'wbsite-portfolio-blogging-tailwind' using 'npx create-react-app'. 
Installed two dependencies that are used in almost every ReactJs app: react-router-dom, tailwindcss.

`npm install -D tailwindcss`

`npx tailwindcss init`

`npm install react-router-dom`

After installing tailwind, as per the official documentation, we need add the paths to all the template files in the `tailwind.config.js`.
Add `"./src/**/*.{js,jsx,ts,tsx}"` to the `content` array in `tailwind.config.js`.

Last thing with setting up the tailwindcss is to include the following:
`@tailwind base;`
`@tailwind components;`
`@tailwind utilities;`
In the beginning of the `src/index.css` file.

I am using [realfavicongenerator.net](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) to generate icons of my website. This online tool accepts your logo as an input and gives:
* Favicon package
* Code to include in the `<head>` section of the index.html.

#### Preparing the project by cleaning up the default ReactJS logo and home page

* src/App.css - emptied
* src/App.js:
* * `import logo from './logo.svg'` - remove this line
* *  return `<></>` instead of default ReactJs jsx
* src/index.css - emptied
* src/index.js:
* * `import reportWebVitals from './reportWebVitals';` - remove this line
* * `reportWebVitals();` - remove this line too
* * remove all the default comments generated by ReactJs
* src/reportWebVitals.js - deleted
* src/setupTests.js - deleted
* src/logo.svg - default logo of ReactJs, deleted
* src/App.test.js - Testing configuration of the ReactJs project (I don't know what it is), deleted

Now, we have to sort out the displayed logo of the ReactJs app in browsers and mobile apps. For this we can use earlier generated favicon package.
In `public` folder delete the following files:
* logo512.png 
* logo192.png
* favicon.ico

Open the favicon package and copy all the image files to `public/images`.

Open the `site.webmanifest` and copy the content into `src/manifest.json`.

Set the name, short name and ensure that all paths correct.

Now, open the `src/index.html` and set the title.

[realfavicongenerator.net](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) also generates `link` tags for us that we can use in `src/index.html` file.
Put those links in the `src/index.html`.

Certain tags that were generated by [realfavicongenerator.net](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) will already be present in `src/index.html`. Remove the following tags:
* `<link rel="icon" href="%PUBLIC_URL%/favicon.ico" />`
* `<link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="%PUBLIC_URL%/logo192.png" />`
* `<meta name="theme-color" content="#000000" />`

Now, the project is ready for the development.

#### Starting to code

First of all, it is a good practice to include `body { margin: 0; padding: 0; }` in `src/index.css` file.

Now as the project ready for coding, the first thing I have to think about is layout. For now, I will keep the layout simple, because for now I want to focus on the animations of the website. 
I have to think about 'where' and 'what'. What should be in which place? What animation and where it should be?
Once I have decided on 'what', then I will decide on 'where' and after that I will think about more complex layout.

Lets, create the first page - Home page: `src/components/Home/Home.jsx`.

For the components to be accessible, a routing should be configured. The latest version available of react-router-dom can be configured as follows:

`<BrowserRouter>`

    `<Routes>`

        `<Route path="/" element={<Home/>}/>`

    `</Routes>`

`</BrowserRouter>`

There are certain things in development that is really messy for me, for example creating modern backgrounds, icons, and such design related things. 
Therefore, I will not think much about them for now. I will just set the background of the page to some color and change it later.

### Day 2 - 16/01/2024:

#### Learning Three.js

To display anything using three.js, three things are needed, always: scene, camera, rendered.

`Canvas` in _react-three-fiber_ sets up two things: **Scene** and **Camera**.

To actually see something, `<mesh />` needs to be added inside `<Canvas>` tag.

A _mesh_ is a basic scene object in three.js, and it's used to hold the geometry and the material needed to represent a shape in 3D space.


